Main thesis: Empowered teams should be authorized to make decisions in areas of
their expertise.  Alternative phrasing: Teams which are not allowed to make
decisions in their area of expertise are not empowered.

Minor position: Language and framework should be optimized at the project level,
not company level.  Minor position: It's an insult to our field to insinuate
developers aren't capable of working with multiple languages.  Minor position:
It's an insult to developers to insinuate those that can't learn multiple
technologies are software developers.  Minor position: Teams which aren't
empowered aren't worth being on.

Empowering teams


### Trust

Trust is important in an organization. Everyone thinks they know this, so why
bother stating it again? It's important to look at exactly why trust is
important.

Individuals within an organization have to depend on each other to accomplish
tasks and move projects (and thus the organization) towards goals. Why do
individuals have to depend on each other? This dependency arises for two
reasons.

First, one person does not have time to do all the things that need to be done
to move projects forward. Sometimes things take less time when fewer people work
on them, but often this isn't this case. Since mulitple people are doing
separate, necessary, things a dependency is created between them. Trust lets
each person have confidence that tasks are getting accomplished without having
to do those tasks themselves [^1].

Second, one person does not have the skills needed to accomplish each task.
Acknowledging this can be hard, but doing so is the beginnings of real trust.

### Decision making

Organizations reach local optimas in effictiveness when decision makers are
assigned not by their expertise but by their position on the organizational
hierarchy. Now, one might say that position on the organizational hierarchy is
really inferred by decision making ability but that's misleading. Often it seems
that way because certain individuals are granted the authority to make many
types of decisions that affect a large portion of the organization.

### Experimentation, bottom up

Language and framework choice should be project specific. Experimentation is
healthy.

[^1]: Strictly speaking, confidence isn't required but without it what is left?
An organization full of apathetic individuals with no belief that organizational
goals are being accomplished.

You want to hire smart people don't you? Smart people want freedom and trust.

If you trust your teams then why would you take business critical decisions away
from them?

Teams should own technical decisions, if they don't then you're telling them
that they're both not trusted enough to make those decisions and have no need to
learn to make those decisions.

Removing technical decisions from teams is central planning.

Technical decisions that teams should be able to make:

- Frameworks
- Pairing
- Test-first
- Internal architecture
- Physical architecture
- Languages (GASP!)
